The Financial System DeFi promised
As someone who once worked as an investigative journalist, I’ve seen firsthand how traditional finance is stacked against the average person. Antiquated systems, extractive practices, and unequal access to opportunity have turned finance into a game only the wealthy can win. And while DeFi promised a fairer, more accessible alternative, it’s failed to deliver. Instead of freedom from middlemen, we've created new ones, each adding complexity and cost. Neutron is on a mission is to change that.
A Broken System
Traditional finance has always been about keeping the best opportunities for insiders. DeFi was supposed to be different, but it’s failed to deliver. Fragmentation is rampant; the “smart contracts” aren’t actually smart; and there’s a third-party required for almost every core function: block building, bridging, automation, oracles… you name it. As a result, retail participants have been losing billions of dollars a year to more sophisticated actors, and developers have been forced to choose between building isolated instances or on top of generalized infrastructure.
Neutron is delivering on the original promise of DeFi by combining the best of app-specific toolkits and the advantages of a single state machine to create a deeply integrated economy that is more capital-efficient, profitable, and convenient than anything that exists today.
Capital-efficiency: Do more with the same amount of money.
Profitability: Better apps mean more value for users and builders.
Convenience: A seamless product experience at every level.
We call this approach Integrated Finance and are using it to pave the way for building a decentralized economy that works for everyone—not just the fortunate few.
What Makes Neutron Different?
Unlike generalized blockchains like Ethereum or Solana, Neutron is exclusively focused on finance. This focus allows it to make bold, opinionated choices about infrastructure, remove reliance on third-parties by enshrining critical financial infrastructure (e.g., bridges, oracles, automation, block production), and unlock unprecedented financial products and experiences.
Here’s what that looks like in action:
Smart(er) contracts: Contracts on Neutron are clairvoyant and capable of making decisions in real-time, thanks to our in-protocol oracle, native automation, and transaction ordering primitives.
Liquidity stack: AMMs are inefficient and unprofitable. Instead, Neutron supports tighter spreads and profitable liquidity management for everyone through market-making vaults that leverage Neutron’s built-in per-block oracle for deep perps and spot liquidity.
Native interoperability: Neutron’s Interchain Transactions and Queries capabilities enable trust-minimized, cross-chain transactions. This allows protocols like @dropdotmoney and @ValenceZone to operate across ecosystems without technical debt or user friction.
Neutron’s approach isn’t theoretical—it’s delivering real-world impact right now.
$580M in on-chain assets and a 268.8% TVL increase over the past four months (August–November 2024).
34k monthly active users, including vibrant sub-communities like @Newtrawn_org and @Memeducknft, creating grassroots community growth through NFTs, AI bots, and more.
Neutron processes over $68M in bridge volume every month, making it the leading bridge for TIA and one of the most active networks for cross-chain transactions.
Protocols like @mars_protocol have migrated from dedicated appchains to Neutron, reducing costs, improving performance, and creating better user experiences.
And its done so with minimal growth expenditures compared to most other networks, proving that it’s not just growing fast, but doing so efficiently.
Stories from the Ecosystem
Developer Success: Lido and Drop Protocol
Before Neutron, liquid staking protocols like @LidoFinance faced enormous challenges scaling across chains. Each network required a separate deployment, increasing complexity and costs, and fragmenting user experience. With Neutron, the Lido Alliance launched Drop Protocol, which uses Neutron’s infrastructure to manage liquid staking across multiple chains from a single instance. This reduces costs, streamlines operations, and creates a seamless user experience.
User Impact: Smarter Collateral and Profitable Strategies
Neutron enables protocols like @Mars_Protocol to build ambitious and unprecedented DeFi protocols that improve outcomes for users. Mars’ perpetuals securely accept any liquid asset as collateral, which opens up vastly more capital-efficient strategies than the many platforms that only accept USDC as collateral. Their counterparty vaults leverage Neutron’s built-in oracle to market-make using real-time price feeds - enabling anyone to be a profitable liquidity provider.
Accessibility: Making DeFi Easy
Neutron’s multi-asset gas support ensures users can always transact, even if they’ve swapped out native tokens. Combined with the upcoming ability to sign in with Ethereum and Passkeys, the network's sub-2-second finality (with sub-1-second on its way), and transaction costs under $0.01, Neutron delivers a user experience that’s accessible and frustration-free.
Front-running the Future with Integrated Finance
Users inevitably flock to the financial products that let them do more, earn more, and are the easiest to use. However, it’s easy to see that the solutions being worked on today will fall short:
While today’s app-specific toolkits will support a greater design space, they will fail to support the tight integration that’s necessary for optimal efficiency and seamless user experiences.
While today’s generalized platforms will reap the UX and efficiency gains from convenient composability, they fail to provide applications with the tools to solve critical problems in improving profitability and capital efficiency.
By combining the best of both, Neutron is building the foundation for a decentralized economy that fulfills the promises of DeFi: a financial system that is fair, efficient, accessible, and beneficial to all.
What’s Next for Neutron?
With its unique infrastructure and initial traction, Neutron is poised to scale aggressively. Over the coming months, we’ll be focused on bringing DeFi to Bitcoin.
Drop’s upcoming product, maxBTC, has the potential to serve as the premier collateral asset in crypto. Leveraging oracle-based market-making vaults, whales will be supported with deep liquidity at CEX prices, and liquidity providers will win on the resulting volume. This liquidity will be used to support supply capacity for using maxBTC as perps collateral on @mars_protocol, which will unlock basis trades and long-short strategies on BTC where users can earn more yield on less capital.
Contributors are also working across the board to propose upgraded token economics, redesign block production to bring latency down to ~200ms, and dramatically increase distribution for the ecosystem.
It’s time to go big or go home.
Join the Movement
We are on a mission to build the decentralized economy we were promised—one that creates and distributes abundance, prioritizes fairness and efficiency, and enables financial opportunity for everyone.
The future isn’t just decentralized. It’s integrated. Let’s build it together.